- [Instructor] Let's work on a new feature
for our small website
so that we can see how trunk-based development works
and get a look at feature flags.
To start, let's get a fresh copy of the code
by pulling all of the changes
from the main branch in the shared repository on GitHub
to our local repository.
Now we're synced up with Trunk,
so let's open our index.md file to add the new feature,
which is going to add another course to the page.
This time, I'm going to add the markup
from LinkedIn learning
that embeds my learning Java collections course
into our site.
So I'll just go ahead and copy that markup.
And then back in our index.md file,
I'm going to go ahead and paste it here
at the bottom of the page.
Now, I'm also going to wrap that markup in a div,
and I'll give that div an ID of preview,
and then I'm going to set its display property to none.
All right, let's go ahead. We'll close that div.
And now we've wrapped that markup that embeds the course,
and initially,
it's going to be hidden on the page by default.
Now, to control when this content
is accessible to end users,
we'll add a feature flag in our site.
To do that,
we'll need to add the LaunchDarkly JavaScript client.
So up at the top of the page,
I'm going to go ahead and add a reference to that script.
This will give us a client that we can use
to retrieve the feature flag
that we created in our last lesson.
Now that we've created the client,
I'm going to add a block of JavaScript
that uses the LaunchDarkly client
to retrieve the feature flag,
which can be used to toggle the display value
of our preview div.
In this code,
we initialize the client by providing our client ID.
We'll fetch that in a minute.
Then, in this event handler,
we listen for changes to our feature flag,
and then depending on the value of that feature flag,
we'll toggle the display property on our preview div.
When the feature flag is activated,
we'll display our content,
but when it's not, it'll be hidden for end users.
You can see that this code is missing two values:
our client ID and the flag name.
So let's head over to LaunchDarkly,
and we'll grab these values.
Here, we can see our first value:
the name of our feature flag.
It's course-preview.
The second value, the client ID,
we can obtain from the account settings,
so let's navigate to our Account settings
and then click on Projects,
and here you'll see that we have two environments
for our feature flag.
Now, we're going to work in our production environment,
and here you can see the client-side ID
for that environment.
Let's go ahead. We'll copy that.
And then back in our index.md file, I'm going to paste it,
and then we'll provide the name of our feature flag.
It was course-preview.
Okay, now this code is ready to be merged into Trunk
so that it can be deployed.
Let's go ahead, and we'll create a commit
that saves these changes in our local repository.
For the commit message,
I'll just say that we're adding a new course
and a feature flag.
Okay, now we've committed the changes.
Let's go ahead,
and we'll push them over to the shared repository.
All right, now the changes are pushed,
and it's going to trigger the GitHub action
that's going to build and deploy the page.
For small teams working directly against Trunk,
that's how simple the development workflow can be
in trunk-based development.
Now, of course, for production systems,
you would want some tests in place to verify these changes.
But for our simple project, it's really not necessary.
Okay, let's head over to GitHub,
and we'll take a look at how the deployment is going.
There, we can see
that our website was successfully deployed.
Let's go ahead, and we'll open the page,
and you'll notice that our third course
is currently not present.
Now, let's toggle our feature flag over in LaunchDarkly
to see what happens.
So here on the feature flag,
I'm just going to scroll over to the right,
and I can just click on this toggle in order to activate it.
So I'll save the changes,
and now if we just give it a minute,
we'll see that the third course is present
and displayed on our page.
If we'd like to toggle it off,
we can just go ahead and deactivate our feature flag,
and there you can see it disappeared.
So that's just a basic example
of how feature flags can be used
with trunk-based development.
Our example used a flag on the client side,
but there are SDKs that you can use
to toggle features on and off on the server side, as well.
You'll find that using feature flags
is a great way to break down your features
so you can keep your changes small
and avoid long-lived branches,
which is how your team will be successful
with trunk-based development.